# analyze_eVOLVER
MATLAB package for basic analysis of raw eVOLVER data files generated as in Wong et al 2018. 

https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.4151

Relies on notBoxPlot() function:  https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/26508-notboxplot

Windows filepaths assumed, should be manually corrected in 'analyze_eVOLVER.m' and 'unpack_eVOLVER.m'

 Instructions for use of analyze_eVOLVER.m:
 - Set parameters in initialize section (line 11), analysis section (line 35),
   and plotting section (line 101)
 - Choose expt folder or load data (useful if combining multiple experiments)
 - Use vials to select only the vials of interest for both analysis and plotting,
   e.g. to make overlay plot of only two vials, select just those two

DESCRIPTION OF DATA VARIABLES

BASIC VARIABLES (unpacked from expt folder, stored in both _raw.mat and _output.mat)
 
 OD_data: cell array containing [timepoint OD] data for each vial, output is
 trimmed to timerange. Note that OD is recorded more frequently than updated 
 
 T_data: cell array containing [timepoint temperature] data for
 each vial, output is trimmed to timerange. Note that temperature is
 recorded more frequently than updated
 
 ODset: cell array containing [timepoint ODsetpoint] data for each vial, used
 for segmenting turbidostat data, output is trimmed to timerange
 
 pump_log: cell array containing [timepoint pump_duration] data for each vial,
 usually not used, output is trimmed to timerange
 
 OUTPUT VARIABLES (generated by analysis, stored in _output.mat only) 
 
 OD_segments: cell array containing [timepoint OD] data used to calculate
 growth rate for each vial. For 'segmented' analysis, this is every turbidostat window,
 while for 'single' analysis, this is the expected exponential range selected in ODrange
 
 g_rate: cell array containing [timepoint growth rate] data for each vial, 
 timepoint is set as the end of the time window over which g_rate was calculated
 
 gens: cell array containing [timepoint generations] data for each vial,
 generations are cumulative since start of timerange
 
 conf: cell array containing [timepoint low high] 95% confidence interval
 growth rate data for each vial if using 'fit'. Not defined for 'avg'
 
 endpoint: cell array containing [timepoint OD] data for endpoint OD in
 'single' analysis. If timerange is defined such that cultures have
 reached equilibrium, then endpoint is an estimate of carrying capacity.
 Note that high OD values are sbuject to limitations of the calibration
 curve for each smart sleeve.

 auc: cell array containing [timepoint AUC] data for area under the OD
 curve in 'single' analyis. This is the trapezoidal area under the OD_data
 curve for each vial.
 
 Chris Mancuso, Boston University, Khalil Lab, 2019
